docs/source/user/cap-alerts.rst, before:

.. _cap-alerts:

Publishing CAP XML with wis2box
===============================

Overview
--------

To enable the sending of alerts about severe weather and other hazards, WMO recommends the use of the Common Alerting Protocol (CAP).
CAP is an XML-based format for exchanging all-hazard emergency alerts and public warnings over all kinds of networks, see the full specification `here <https://docs.oasis-open.org/emergency/cap/v1.2/CAP-v1.2.html>`_.

To aid in the creation of valid CAP XML, the `WMO CAP Composer <https://github.com/World-Meteorological-Organization/cap-composer>`_ software can be used. 
The WMO CAP Composer is designed to be used by National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHS) and other authorized users to create and manage CAP alerts. 
This software can be installed on another instance to provide a web-server where users can create, edit, and publish CAP alerts.

See the  `WMO CAP Composer documentation <https://cap-composer.readthedocs.io>`_ for instructions on installing and configuring the CAP Composer.

Process Outline
---------------
For automated publishing of CAP alerts created with wis2box, you will need to perform the following steps:

1. *Dataset Creation:* Configure the dataset in wis2box to store the CAP alerts.
2. *Forward CAP XML to wis2box:* Configure the WMO CAP Composer to forward the CAP XML over MQTT, or ingest the CAP XML as described in the :ref:`data-ingest` section of the user guide.

Dataset Creation
----------------
Firstly, there must be a dataset in wis2box for the CAP alerts to be stored. To create a dataset, simply navigate to the 'Dataset Editor' page in wis2box-webapp, available on your host at `http://<your-public-ip>/wis2box-webapp`.

.. note::
   For more information on how to create a dataset, please see the :ref:`adding-datasets` section of the wis2box setup guide.

When creating a new dataset for CAP alerts, ensure that the **weather/advisories-warnings** template is selected:

.. image:: ../_static/cap/template_selection.png
   :alt: Select Template
   :width: 400

This template will use the 'CAPMessageData' data plugin, see more information on this plugin in the :ref:`cap-message-data-plugin` section of the data pipeline plugins documentation.

Enter the relevant missing information and create the dataset using your processes/wis2box token.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/submit_dataset.png
   :alt: Submit Dataset
   :width: 800

Now the dataset is created, note down the dataset ID, as it will be required in the next step.

Forwarding CAP XML to wis2box
-----------------------------

The follow section assumes you are using the WMO CAP Composer to create and publish CAP alerts. If you are using a different system to produce CAP XML, you can skip this section and ingest the CAP XML as described in the :ref:`data-ingest` section of the user guide.

Begin by logging in to the CAP Composer.

.. note::
   We will assume that you have the necessary admin rights to configure the CAP Composer. If you do not, please contact your CAP focal point.

Navigate to 'CAP Alerts', then 'MQTT Brokers' in the left-hand menu.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/mqtt_brokers_menu.png
   :alt: MQTT Brokers Menu
   :width: 300

Click on the 'Add MQTT Broker' button in the top-right corner to add a new broker. You should see the following form:

.. image:: ../_static/cap/broker_configuration.png
   :alt: MQTT Broker Configuration
   :width: 600

Here, we should fill the following fields:

- **Name**: A name for the broker.
- **Host**: The ``WIS2BOX_BROKER_HOST`` environment variable from the wis2box configuration.
- **Port**: The ``WIS2BOX_BROKER_PORT`` environment variable from the wis2box configuration.
- **Username**: The ``WIS2BOX_BROKER_USERNAME`` environment variable from the wis2box configuration.
- **Password**: The ``WIS2BOX_BROKER_PASSWORD`` environment variable from the wis2box configuration.
- **WIS2 Node**: Confirmation that the MQTT broker is a WIS2 node (defaults to True).
- **Dataset ID**: The dataset ID of the dataset created in the previous step.

Once you have filled in the form, click the *Save* button to save the broker configuration.

You will be redirected back to the 'MQTT Brokers' page, where you should see the newly added broker.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/mqtt_broker_list.png
   :alt: MQTT Broker List
   :width: 600

Publishing an Alert
-------------------
Let's begin by creating a CAP alert. This can be done by navigating to 'CAP Alerts', then 'Alerts' in the left-hand menu, and clicking the *Add Alert* button in the top-right corner.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/alerts_menu.png
   :alt: Alerts Menu
   :width: 300

.. note::
   For more information on how to create a CAP alert, please see the `CAP Composer documentation on creating alerts <https://nmhs-cms.readthedocs.io/en/stable/_docs/Manage-CAP-Alerts.html#creating-a-cap-alert>`_.

Once the alert is finished, if you are a CAP approver you should see a *Publish* button at the bottom:

.. image:: ../_static/cap/publish_cap_alert.png
   :alt: Publish Alert
   :width: 300

On clicking the *Publish* button, the alert XML file will automatically be created, signed, and published to your wis2box.

.. note::
   If you are a CAP composer, you will only be able to submit the alert for moderation. It is then the responsibility of the CAP approver to approve and publish the alert.

You can view the status of the published alert in the 'CAP Alerts', then 'MQTT Broker Events' section of the CAP Composer.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/mqtt_event_list.png
   :alt: MQTT Event List
   :width: 600

Additional diagnostic information can be found by clicking the *Inspect* button.

Verifying Receipt of a Published Alert and Viewing the Alert
------------------------------------------------------------
We can verify that the alert has been successfully published to wis2box by monitoring the dataset in wis2box-webapp.

Navigate to the 'Monitoring' page in wis2box-webapp, and select the dataset that you created in the previous steps.

.. note::
   If you do not see the dataset, ensure that the datetime range selected includes the time of the alert publication.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/monitoring_dashboard.png
   :alt: Monitoring Dashboard
   :width: 800

Provided the publication was successful, you will see a bar in the 'Notifications' section. If you scroll down to the 'Published Data' section, the signed and verified CAP alert should appear in the table to download and view.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/download_view_alert.png
   :alt: Published Data
   :width: 800

On clicking the *View Alert* button, you should see a visualization of the CAP alert you created earlier.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/alert_preview.png
   :alt: View Alert
   :width: 800

Congratulations! You have successfully published a CAP alert to a wis2box using the CAP Composer.

Commit message:

documentation updates (#961)
* updates for downloader and new env variable for distance used by csv2bufr

* commit WIP

* commit WIP

* try without pygments-csv-lexer

* remove data-access section

* put pygments-csv-lexer back

* put back data-access

* update text on recommended data, explicilty mention aviation data

* minor

* update text on recommended, add screenshots

* commit

* commit updates setup-datasets

* add updates from anna

* add instruction to restart wis2box-api for custom csv2bufr mappings

* streamlines/update all documentation and update screenshots

* remove png

* fix WARNING

* Update auth.rst

* Update data-pipeline-plugins.rst

* Update cap-alerts.rst

* Update data-ingest.rst

* Update public-services-setup.rst

* Update recommended.rst

* Update setup-datasets.rst

* Update setup-stations.rst

* Update setup.rst

* Update wis2node-operations.rst

---------

Co-authored-by: Tom Kralidis <tomkralidis@gmail.com>

docs/source/user/cap-alerts.rst, after:

.. _cap-alerts:

Publishing CAP Alerts
=====================

Overview
--------

To enable the sending of alerts about severe weather and other hazards, WMO recommends the use of the Common Alerting Protocol (CAP).
CAP is an XML-based format for exchanging all-hazard emergency alerts and public warnings over all kinds of networks, see the full specification `here <https://docs.oasis-open.org/emergency/cap/v1.2/CAP-v1.2.html>`_.

To aid in the creation of valid CAP XML, the `WMO CAP Composer <https://github.com/World-Meteorological-Organization/cap-composer>`_ software can be used. 
The WMO CAP Composer is designed to be used by National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHS) and other authorized users to create and manage CAP alerts. 
This software can be installed on another instance to provide a web-server where users can create, edit, and publish CAP alerts.

See the  `WMO CAP Composer documentation <https://cap-composer.readthedocs.io>`_ for instructions on installing and configuring the CAP Composer.

If you already have a system that produces CAP XML, instead of using the WMO CAP Composer, you can ingest the CAP XML directly into wis2box by uploading it into the wis2box-incoming bucket as for any other data type. 

Please make sure to create the dataset as indicated below, which ensures the ``CAPMessageData`` data plugin is used before publishing to verify the input XML follows the CAP schema specification.

Process Outline
---------------
For automated publishing of CAP alerts created with wis2box, you will need to perform the following steps:

1. *Dataset Creation:* Configure the dataset in wis2box to store the CAP alerts.
2. *Forward CAP XML to wis2box:* Configure the WMO CAP Composer to forward the CAP XML over MQTT, or ingest the CAP XML as described in the :ref:`data-ingest` section of the user guide.

Dataset Creation
----------------
Firstly, there must be a dataset in wis2box for the CAP alerts to be stored. To create a dataset, simply navigate to the 'Dataset Editor' page in wis2box-webapp, available on your host at `http://<your-public-ip>/wis2box-webapp`.

.. note::
   For more information on how to create a dataset, please see the :ref:`adding-datasets` section of the wis2box setup guide.

When creating a new dataset for CAP alerts, ensure that the **weather/advisories-warnings** template is selected:

.. image:: ../_static/cap/template_selection.png
   :alt: Select Template
   :width: 400

This template will use the 'CAPMessageData' data plugin, see more information on this plugin in the :ref:`cap-message-data-plugin` section of the data pipeline plugins documentation.

Enter the relevant missing information and create the dataset using your processes/wis2box token.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/submit_dataset.png
   :alt: Submit Dataset
   :width: 800

Now the dataset is created, note down the dataset ID, as it will be required in the next step.

Forwarding CAP XML to wis2box
-----------------------------

The follow section assumes you are using the WMO CAP Composer to create and publish CAP alerts. If you are using a different system to produce CAP XML, you can skip this section and ingest the CAP XML as described in the :ref:`data-ingest` section of the user guide.

Begin by logging in to the CAP Composer.

.. note::
   We will assume that you have the necessary admin rights to configure the CAP Composer. If you do not, please contact your CAP focal point.

Navigate to 'CAP Alerts', then 'MQTT Brokers' in the left-hand menu.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/mqtt_brokers_menu.png
   :alt: MQTT Brokers Menu
   :width: 300

Click on the 'Add MQTT Broker' button in the top-right corner to add a new broker. You should see the following form:

.. image:: ../_static/cap/broker_configuration.png
   :alt: MQTT Broker Configuration
   :width: 600

Here, we should fill the following fields:

- **Name**: A name for the broker.
- **Host**: The ``WIS2BOX_BROKER_HOST`` environment variable from the wis2box configuration.
- **Port**: The ``WIS2BOX_BROKER_PORT`` environment variable from the wis2box configuration.
- **Username**: The ``WIS2BOX_BROKER_USERNAME`` environment variable from the wis2box configuration.
- **Password**: The ``WIS2BOX_BROKER_PASSWORD`` environment variable from the wis2box configuration.
- **WIS2 Node**: Confirmation that the MQTT broker is a WIS2 node (defaults to True).
- **Dataset ID**: The dataset ID of the dataset created in the previous step.

Once you have filled in the form, click the *Save* button to save the broker configuration.

You will be redirected back to the 'MQTT Brokers' page, where you should see the newly added broker.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/mqtt_broker_list.png
   :alt: MQTT Broker List
   :width: 600

Publishing an Alert
-------------------
Let's begin by creating a CAP alert. This can be done by navigating to 'CAP Alerts', then 'Alerts' in the left-hand menu, and clicking the *Add Alert* button in the top-right corner.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/alerts_menu.png
   :alt: Alerts Menu
   :width: 300

.. note::
   For more information on how to create a CAP alert, please see the `CAP Composer documentation on creating alerts <https://nmhs-cms.readthedocs.io/en/stable/_docs/Manage-CAP-Alerts.html#creating-a-cap-alert>`_.

Once the alert is finished, if you are a CAP approver you should see a *Publish* button at the bottom:

.. image:: ../_static/cap/publish_cap_alert.png
   :alt: Publish Alert
   :width: 300

On clicking the *Publish* button, the alert XML file will automatically be created, signed, and published to your wis2box.

.. note::
   If you are a CAP composer, you will only be able to submit the alert for moderation. It is then the responsibility of the CAP approver to approve and publish the alert.

You can view the status of the published alert in the 'CAP Alerts', then 'MQTT Broker Events' section of the CAP Composer.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/mqtt_event_list.png
   :alt: MQTT Event List
   :width: 600

Additional diagnostic information can be found by clicking the *Inspect* button.

Verifying Receipt of a Published Alert and Viewing the Alert
------------------------------------------------------------
We can verify that the alert has been successfully published to wis2box by monitoring the dataset in wis2box-webapp.

Navigate to the 'Monitoring' page in wis2box-webapp, and select the dataset that you created in the previous steps.

.. note::
   If you do not see the dataset, ensure that the datetime range selected includes the time of the alert publication.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/monitoring_dashboard.png
   :alt: Monitoring Dashboard
   :width: 800

Provided the publication was successful, you will see a bar in the 'Notifications' section. If you scroll down to the 'Published Data' section, the signed and verified CAP alert should appear in the table to download and view.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/download_view_alert.png
   :alt: Published Data
   :width: 800

On clicking the *View Alert* button, you should see a visualization of the CAP alert you created earlier.

.. image:: ../_static/cap/alert_preview.png
   :alt: View Alert
   :width: 800

Congratulations! You have successfully published a CAP alert to a wis2box using the CAP Composer.
