docs/source/user/gts-headers-in-wis2.rst, before:

.. _gts-headers-in-wis2:

Optional: adding GTS headers to WIS2 notifications during the transition period
===============================================================================

Overview
--------

This section provides guidance how to add GTS headers to your WIS2 notifications.

By adding GTS headers to your WIS2 notifications, you can stop your MSS and still have your data available on the GTS during the transition period.

To enable the WIS2 to GTS Gateway to correctly identify the data to be republished on the GTS, you need to include the GTS property in the WIS2 Notification Message as follows:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "properties": {
       "gts": {
         "ttaaii": "FTAE31",
         "cccc": "VTBB"
       }
     }
   }

wis2box can add these to WIS2 Notifications automatically, provided you specify the additional file `gts_headers_mappings.csv` that contains the required information to map the GTS headers to the incoming filenames.

Note that this is optional and only required if you want to turn off the existing system responsible for sending data to the GTS during the transition period.

gts_headers_mapping.csv
-----------------------

If you want to add GTS headers to your WIS2 notifications, a CSV file is required that maps GTS headers to incoming filenames. 

The CSV file should be named (exactly) `gts_headers_mapping.csv` and should be placed in the directory defined using the `WIS2BOX_HOST_DATADIR` environment variable.

The CSV should contain the following columns: `string_in_filepath`, `TTAAii`, and `CCCC`.

Example content for `gts_headers_mapping.csv`:

.. code-block:: csv

   string_in_filepath,TTAAii,CCCC
   ISMD01LIIB,ISMD01,LIBB
   ISMD02LIIB,ISMD02,LIBB

In this example, whenever `ISMD01LIIB` or `ISMD02LIIB` is contained in the filepath of the incoming file,
the corresponding GTS headers will be added to the WIS2 Notification Message as a dictionary in the `properties` field:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "properties": {
       "gts": {
         "ttaaii": "ISMD01",
         "cccc": "LIBB"
       }
     }
   }

If the `gts_headers_mapping.csv` file is not present in the directory you defined using the `WIS2BOX_HOST_DATADIR` environment variable, wis2box will not add any GTS headers to the WIS2 Notification Message.

Commit message:

documentation updates (#961)
* updates for downloader and new env variable for distance used by csv2bufr

* commit WIP

* commit WIP

* try without pygments-csv-lexer

* remove data-access section

* put pygments-csv-lexer back

* put back data-access

* update text on recommended data, explicilty mention aviation data

* minor

* update text on recommended, add screenshots

* commit

* commit updates setup-datasets

* add updates from anna

* add instruction to restart wis2box-api for custom csv2bufr mappings

* streamlines/update all documentation and update screenshots

* remove png

* fix WARNING

* Update auth.rst

* Update data-pipeline-plugins.rst

* Update cap-alerts.rst

* Update data-ingest.rst

* Update public-services-setup.rst

* Update recommended.rst

* Update setup-datasets.rst

* Update setup-stations.rst

* Update setup.rst

* Update wis2node-operations.rst

---------

Co-authored-by: Tom Kralidis <tomkralidis@gmail.com>

docs/source/user/gts-headers-in-wis2.rst, after:

.. _gts-headers-in-wis2:

Optional: add GTS properties
============================

Overview
--------

This section provides guidance how to add GTS headers to your WIS2 notifications during the `GTS to WIS2 transition period`_

**NOTE: this step is only required during the transition period and only for datasets currently published on the GTS.**

To enable the WIS2 to GTS Gateway to correctly identify the data to be republished on the GTS, you need to include the GTS property in the WIS2 Notification Message as follows:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "properties": {
       "gts": {
         "ttaaii": "FTAE31",
         "cccc": "VTBB"
       }
     }
   }

wis2box can add these to WIS2 Notifications automatically, provided you specify the additional file `gts_headers_mappings.csv` that contains the required information to map the GTS headers to the incoming filenames.

Note that this is optional and only required if you want to turn off the existing system responsible for sending data to the GTS during the transition period.

gts_headers_mapping.csv
-----------------------

If you want to add GTS headers to your WIS2 notifications, a CSV file is required that maps GTS headers to incoming filenames. 

The CSV file should be named (exactly) `gts_headers_mapping.csv` and should be placed in the directory defined using the `WIS2BOX_HOST_DATADIR` environment variable.

The CSV should contain the following columns: `string_in_filepath`, `TTAAii`, and `CCCC`.

Example content for `gts_headers_mapping.csv`:

.. code-block:: csv

   string_in_filepath,TTAAii,CCCC
   ISMD01LIIB,ISMD01,LIBB
   ISMD02LIIB,ISMD02,LIBB

In this example, whenever `ISMD01LIIB` or `ISMD02LIIB` is contained in the filepath of the incoming file,
the corresponding GTS headers will be added to the WIS2 Notification Message as a dictionary in the `properties` field:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "properties": {
       "gts": {
         "ttaaii": "ISMD01",
         "cccc": "LIBB"
       }
     }
   }

If the `gts_headers_mapping.csv` file is not present in the directory you defined using the `WIS2BOX_HOST_DATADIR` environment variable, wis2box will not add any GTS headers to the WIS2 Notification Message.

.. _GTS to WIS2 transition period: https://community.wmo.int/en/GTS_WIS2_Transition_Guidance
