docs/source/reference/wis2.rst, before:

WIS2
====

The `WMO Information System`_ is a coordinated global infrastructure responsible for telecommunications
and data management functions and is owned and operated by WMO Members.

WIS provides an integrated approach suitable for all WMO Programmes to meet the requirements for routine
collection and automated dissemination of observed data and products, as well as data discovery, access,
and retrieval services for weather, climate, water, and related data produced by centres and Member
countries in the framework of any WMO Programme. It is capable of exchanging large data volumes, such
as new ground and satellite-based systems, finer resolutions in numerical weather prediction, and
hydrological models and their applications. These data and products must be available to National
Hydrological and Meteorological Services (NHMS), but also national disaster authorities for more timely
alerts where and when needed.

WIS is a vital data communications backbone for integrating the diverse real-time and non-real-time high
priority data sets, regardless of location.

Further documentation on WIS2 can be found at the following links:

* `WIS Overview`_

.. _`WMO Information System`: https://community.wmo.int/activity-areas/wis
.. _`WIS Overview`: https://community.wmo.int/activity-areas/wis/wis-overview

Commit message:

prepare docs update (#1033)
* prepare docs update

* add new troubleshooting section

* update list of containers

* fix troubleshooting, update screenshots

* update screenshot

* improve text around security

* updates

* align with WMO webpage

* add bufr-overrides example

* mention option to disable caching

* Update troubleshooting.rst

* Update BUFR-overrides explanation in documentation

Clarify the usage of BUFR-overrides in the documentation.

* Update administration.rst

* Revise WIS2 documentation for clarity and detail

Reworded and clarified sections about WIS2, including its objectives and principles.

* Update getting-started.rst

* Fix formatting and wording in public-services-setup.rst

* Update setup-datasets.rst

* fix minor grammar issue

---------

Co-authored-by: Tom Kralidis <tomkralidis@gmail.com>

docs/source/reference/wis2.rst, after:

WIS2
====

The `WMO Information System 2.0`_ (WIS2) is the framework for WMO data sharing for all WMO domains and disciplines. The Commission for Observation, Infrastructure and Information Systems (`INFCOM`_) approved the technical specifications of WIS 2.0 and its implementation plan in October 2022.

WIS2 will gradually replace the Global Telecommunication System (GTS).

WIS2 was designed to support the WMO Unified Data policy and the Global Basic Observing Network (GBON), and to make data sharing between WMO Members simple, effective and cost-efficient.
The idea that *no Member should be left behind* and the objective of lowering the barrier to adoption has been at the core of WIS2 development.

These objectives inspire the principles underpinning the WIS2 technical framework, such as adopting Open Standards and Web technologies to facilitate sharing of increasing variety and volume of real-time data.  

The `Manual`_ on the WMO Information System (WMO-No.1060), Volume II contains standard and recommended practices, procedures, and specifications.

The `Guide`_ to the WMO Information System (WMO-No.1061), Volume II provides additional information concerning practices, procedures, 
and specifications that Members are invited to follow or implement in establishing and conducting their arrangements in compliance with the WMO Technical Regulations 
and in developing meteorological and hydrological data services.

For more information on WIS2, please refer to the `WIS2 Overview`_ on the WMO community website.

.. _`WMO Information System 2.0`: https://community.wmo.int/site/knowledge-hub/programmes-and-initiatives/wmo-information-system-wis
.. _`INFCOM`: https://community.wmo.int/site/knowledge-hub/governance/infcom
.. _`Manual`: https://community.wmo.int/node/37558
.. _`Guide`: https://community.wmo.int/node/37510
.. _`WIS2 Overview`: https://community.wmo.int/site/knowledge-hub/programmes-and-initiatives/wmo-information-system-wis/wis2-overview
